China has started a grand
experiment in AI education. It
could reshape how the world
learns.
Karen Hao
Zhou Yi was terrible at math. He risked never getting into college. Then a company called
Squirrel AI came to his middle school in Hangzhou, China, promising personalized tutoring.
He had tried tutoring services before, but this one was different: instead of a human teacher,
an AI algorithm would curate his lessons. The 13-year-old decided to give it a try. By the end
of the semester, his test scores had risen from 50% to 62.5%. Two years later, he scored an
85% on his final middle school exam.
“I used to think math was terrifying,” he says. “But through tutoring, I realized it really isn’t
that hard. It helped me take the first step down a different path.”
Experts agree AI will be important in 21st-century education—but how? While academics
have puzzled over best practices, China hasn’t waited around. In the last few years, the
country’s investment in AI-enabled teaching and learning has exploded. Tech giants,
startups, and education incumbents have all jumped in. Tens of millions of students now use
some form of AI to learn—whether through extracurricular tutoring programs like Squirrel’s,
through digital learning platforms like 17ZuoYe, or even in their main classrooms. It’s the
world’s biggest experiment on AI in education, and no one can predict the outcome.
Silicon Valley is also keenly interested. In a report in March, the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative
and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation identified AI as an educational tool worthy of
investment. In his 2018 book Rewiring Education, John Couch, Apple’s vice president of
education, lauded Squirrel AI. (A Chinese version of the book is coauthored by Squirrel’s
founder, Derek Li.) Squirrel also opened a joint research lab with Carnegie Mellon University
this year to study personalized learning at scale, then export it globally.
But experts worry about the direction this rush to AI in education is taking. At best, they say,
AI can help teachers foster their students’ interests and strengths. At worst, it could further
entrench a global trend toward standardized learning and testing, leaving the next generation
ill prepared to adapt in a rapidly changing world of work.
As one of the largest AI education companies in China, Squirrel highlights this tension. And
as one of the best-poised to spread overseas, it offers a window into how China’s
experiments could shape the rest of the world.
Zhou Yi taking a math tutoring class with Squirrel AI.
Noah Sheldon
The learning center that Zhou attends, one of the first that Squirrel opened, occupies the
second floor of an unassuming building on a busy commercial road in Hangzhou, a secondtier
city in Zhejiang province. Company awards line the walls in the stairwell. Further in, large
photographs of at least a dozen men are on display: half of them are Squirrel AI’s executives
and the others are master teachers, a title bestowed on the best teachers in China, who help
develop the company’s curriculum.
The school’s interior decorations are modest. The foyer is small and colorful with lime-green
accents. Photos of smiling students hang along the corridor between six or so classrooms.
Inside, faded decals of trees and simple mottos like “Be humble” enliven the walls. There are
no whiteboards, projectors, or other equipment—just one table per room, meant for six to
eight people.
The vehicle of instruction is the laptop. Students and teachers alike stare intently at screens.
In one room, two students wear headsets, engrossed in an English tutoring session. In
another, three students, including Zhou, take three separate math classes. They work out
practice problems on pieces of paper before submitting their answers online. In each room, a
teacher monitors the students through a real-time dashboard.
At different points, both teachers notice something on their screen that prompts them to walk
over and kneel by a student’s chair. They speak in hushed tones, presumably to answer a
question the tutoring system can’t resolve. Though I’m just feet away, I can’t distinguish their
words above the soft hum of traffic on the street below.
“It’s so quiet,” I whisper to the small gang of school and company staff assembled for my
tour. The Hangzhou regional director smiles with what I interpret as a hint of pride: “There are
no sounds of teachers lecturing.”
Students at Squirrel receive help from their teacher.
NOah Sheldon
Three things have fueled China’s AI education boom. The first is tax breaks and other
incentives for AI ventures that improve anything from student learning to teacher training to
school management. For VCs, this means such ventures are good bets. According to one
estimate, China led the way in over $1 billion invested globally last year in AI education.
Second, academic competition in China is fierce. Ten million students a year take the college
entrance exam, the gaokao. Your score determines whether and where you can study for a
degree, and it’s seen as the biggest determinant of success for the rest of your life. Parents
willingly pay for tutoring or anything else that helps their children get ahead.
Finally, Chinese entrepreneurs have masses of data at their disposal to train and refine their
algorithms. The population is vast, people’s views on data privacy are much more lax than in
the West (especially if they can get coveted benefits like academic performance in return),
and parents are big believers in the potential of technology, having seen how much it has
transformed the country in just a few decades.
Squirrel focuses on helping students score better on annual standardized tests, which taps
straight into national gaokao anxiety; more than 80% of its students return year after year, itsays. It also designed its system to capture ever more data from the beginning, which has
made possible all kinds of personalization and prediction experiments. It heavily markets its
technical capabilities through academic publications, international collaborations, and
awards, which has made it a darling of the Shanghai local government.
The strategy has fueled mind-boggling growth. In the five years since it was founded, the
company has opened 2,000 learning centers in 200 cities and registered over a million
students—equal to New York City’s entire public school system. It plans to expand to 2,000
more centers domestically within a year. To date, the company has also raised over $180
million in funding. At the end of last year, it gained unicorn status, surpassing $1 billion in
valuation.
Squirrel AI's headquarters in Shanghai.
Noah Sheldon
Squirrel isn’t the first company to pursue the concept of an AI tutor. The earliest efforts to
“replicate” teachers date back to the 1970s, when computers first started being used in
education. Then, between 1982 and 1984, several studies in the US showed that students
who received one-on-one human tutoring performed far better than students who didn’t. This
set off a new wave of efforts to re-create that kind of individual attention in a machine. The
result was adaptive learning systems, which can now be found everywhere from
kindergartens to workplace training centers.
Squirrel’s innovation is in its granularity and scale. For every course it offers, its engineering
team works with a group of master teachers to subdivide the subject into the smallest
possible conceptual pieces. Middle school math, for example, is broken into over 10,000
atomic elements, or “knowledge points,” such as rational numbers, the properties of a
triangle, and the Pythagorean theorem. The goal is to diagnose a student’s gaps in
understanding as precisely as possible. By comparison, a textbook might divide the same
subject into 3,000 points; ALEKS, an adaptive learning platform developed by US-based
McGraw-Hill, which inspired Squirrel’s, divides it into roughly 1,000.
Once the knowledge points are set, they are paired with video lectures, notes, worked
examples, and practice problems. Their relationships—how they build on each other and
overlap—are encoded in a “knowledge graph,” also based on the master teachers’
experience.
Squirrel AI's engineers work on buidling the company's tutoring platform.
Noah Sheldon
A student begins a course of study with a short diagnostic test to assess how well she
understands key concepts. If she correctly answers an early question, the system will
assume she knows related concepts and skip ahead. Within 10 questions, the system has a
rough sketch of what she needs to work on, and uses it to build a curriculum. As she studies,
the system updates its model of her understanding and adjusts the curriculum accordingly.
As more students use the system, it spots previously unrealized connections between
concepts. The machine-learning algorithms then update the relationships in the knowledge
graph to take these new connections into account. While ALEKS does some of this as well,Squirrel claims that its machine-learning optimizations are more limited, making it, in theory,
less effective.
Squirrel has offered some validation of its system. In October 2017, for example, a selffunded
four-day study with 78 middle school students found that the system was better on
average at lifting math test scores than experienced teachers teaching a dozen or so kids in
a traditional classroom.
The students I speak to at the learning center have high praise for the tutoring program as
well. All are finishing middle school and have been coming to the center for more than a year.
One girl, Fu Weiyi, tells me she’s improved far faster than when she got individual tutoring
from a human teacher. “Here, I have a teacher both on and offline,” she says. “Plus, the
instruction is very targeted; the system can directly identify the gaps in my understanding.”
Another student echoes the sentiment: “With the system, you don’t have to do tons of
exercises, but it’s still effective. It really saves time.”
While I have to take their words with a grain of salt—the students are hand-picked and give
their testimonials under intense supervision—I’m still touched by their relief that they’ve
found a formula that works to ameliorate the often brutal academic environment. Zhou Yi’s
story, perhaps not coincidentally, also neatly illustrates how Squirrel can help struggling
students.
For Squirrel’s founder Li, this vision doesn’t stop at tutoring. He has ambitions to break out of
the confines of after-school programming and integrate his curriculum directly into the main
classroom. Squirrel is already in discussion with several schools in China to make its system
the primary method of instruction.
I try to imagine what this world might be like, and whether we might be better off for it. I ask
the students one last question: Is there anything that Squirrel could improve? A long pause.
Then: “I wish we had more interaction with our human teachers,” Fu says.
A teacher helping a student via video as part of Squirrel's new remote
tutoring program.
Noah Sheldon
Every educational expert I spoke to for this story began by making the same point: to
understand how AI could improve teaching and learning, you need to think about how it is
reshaping the nature of work.
As machines become better at rote tasks, humans will need to focus on the skills that remain
unique to them: creativity, collaboration, communication, and problem-solving. They will also
need to adapt quickly as more and more skills fall prey to automation. This means the 21stcentury
classroom should bring out the strengths and interests of each person, rather than
impart a canonical set of knowledge more suited for the industrial age.
AI, in theory, could make this easier. It could take over certain rote tasks in the classroom,
freeing teachers up to pay more attention to each student. Hypotheses differ about what that
might look like. Perhaps AI will teach certain kinds of knowledge while humans teach others;
perhaps it will help teachers keep track of student performance or give students more control over how they learn. Regardless, the ultimate goal is deeply personalized teaching.
A wall at Squirrel's headquarters showing examples of underperforming
students whom the platform "saved."
Noah Sheldon
Squirrel’s approach may yield great results on traditional education, but it doesn’t prepare
students to be flexible in a changing world, the experts I spoke to say. “There’s a difference
between adaptive learning and personalized learning,” says Chris Dede, a professor at
Harvard University in the Technology, Innovation, and Education Program. Squirrel is doing
adaptive learning, which is about “understanding exactly what students know and don’t
know.” But it pays no attention to what they want to know or how they learn best.
Personalized learning takes their interests and needs into account to “orchestrate the
motivation and time for each student so they are able to make progress.” 
Jutta Treviranus, a professor at the Ontario College of Art and Design University who
pioneered personalized learning to improve inclusivity in education, breaks it down further.
“Personalized learning has a number of levels,” she says: she calls them pace, path, and
destination.
If the pace of learning is personalized, students with different abilities are allowed different
amounts of time to learn the same material. If the path is personalized, students might be
given different motivations to reach the same objectives (“Here’s why statistics is relevant to
your love of baseball”) and offered the material in different formats (e.g., video versus text). If
the destination is personalized, students can choose, for instance, whether to learn with a
vocational school or a university in mind.
“We need students to understand their own learning. We need them to determine what they
want to learn, and we need them to learn to learn,” Treviranus says. “Squirrel AI doesn’t
address those things at all. It only makes it more efficient to bring all of the students to the
same standardized place.”
That doesn’t mean that adaptive learning systems won’t have any place in the 21st-century
classroom. David Dockterman, a colleague of Dede’s, believes their strength in training
people on structured knowledge is still valuable. But it would be a mistake to make them the
predominant “teacher” in the classroom: “The kinds of rote activities—knowledge retrieval,
skill acquisition—that are more readily teachable with a smart tutor are also the things that
are more readily accomplished by a smart machine,” he says.
Derek Li, Squirrel AI's founder
Noah Sheldon
Li, Squirrel’s founder, is tall and lanky and has severe cheekbones. When he speaks English,
he punctuates every few sentences with “Right?,” eyebrows raised, to make sure you’re on
the same page. When he speaks Mandarin, his words tumble out twice as fast.
A week after my visit to the learning center, I meet him at Squirrel’s headquarters in
Shanghai. In the style of an understated showman, he gives me the grand tour. The modesty of the learning center stands in sharp contrast to the office décor here: each wall boasts of
different details about the company and milestones it’s reached. Here’s one with all its media
mentions. Here’s another with all its awards. And here are some examples of students who
were deemed “hopeless” and then saved. I run into another tour before I’ve finished my own.
A few steps past the first door, Li points out a screen to my immediate left playing a TV clip
on repeat. It’s a game show featuring a showdown between Squirrel’s tutoring system and a
human teacher—one of the best in China, he says. Three of the teacher’s students, whom
he has taught for three years, stand alongside him on stage solving problems. The system
and the teacher compete to predict which ones they will get right.
Li doesn’t wait for the clip to end to reveal the punchline: “In three hours we understand
students more than the three years spent by the best teachers.”
On screen, the teacher looks increasingly crestfallen and humiliated. “He looks so sad,” I say.
“You noticed!” Li laughs.
Much of Squirrel’s philosophy stems from Li’s own experiences as a child. When he was
young, he didn’t have very good emotional intelligence, he says, and reading books on the
subject didn’t help. So he spent half a year dividing the skill into 27 different components and
trained himself on each one. He trained himself to be more observant, for example, and to be
an interesting conversationalist (“I spent a lot of time finding 100 topics, so I have a lot of
material to talk with others,” he says). He even trained himself to keep smiling when others
criticized him. (“After that, in my life, I do not have any enemies.”) The method gave him the
results he wanted—along with the firm belief that anything can be taught this way. Li uses an analogy to lay out his ultimate vision. “When AI education prevails,” he says,
“human teachers will be like a pilot.” They will monitor the readouts while the algorithm flies
the plane, and for the most part they will play a passive role. But every so often, when there’s
an alert and a passenger panics (say, a student gets bullied), they can step in to calm things
down. “Human teachers will focus on emotional communication,” he says.
Li thinks this is the only way humanity will be able to elevate its collective intelligence.
Entrusting teachers with anything else could risk “damaging geniuses.” He’s playing out this
philosophy on his own kids, using Squirrel’s system as much as possible to train them. He
boasts that his eight-year-old twin boys, in the second grade, are now learning eighth-grade
physics, a testament that his method is working. “Only adaptive systems could make such
miracles,” he says.